Node js is a programming language that utilizes both Javascript and C/C++ to create it's core component . Node js is a platfrom that utilize javascript and is highliy employed for devloping web application that are highly focused for input/Output operations, including but not limited to chat applications and multimedia streming websites. This platfrom is constructed using Google Chrome's V8 Javascript engene. A web applications is a type of software that execute on a server and is displayed by a clint browser that obtain all the operation's resources over the internet. Compare to other server side languages, Node has distinct advantages. Its asynchronous models and non-blocking I/O operation improve the scalablity and performance of web application build in other frameworks. Node js can easly handle multiple clint request with out requiring multiple threads,consuming less memory and resourses.Additionaly, it is highly scalable and provide high profomance. Node js is also flexiable with multiple frameworks and make the devlopment process easier. Compare to other server side languages, Node has distinct advantages. Its asynchronous models and non-blocking I/O operation improve the scalablity and performance of web application build in other frameworks. Node js can easly handle multiple clint request with out requiring multiple threads,consuming less memory and resourses.Additionaly, it is highly scalable and provide high profomance. Node js is also flexiable with multiple frameworks and make the devlopment process easier. Compare to other server side languages, Node has distinct advantages. Its asynchronous models and non-blocking I/O operation improve the scalablity and performance of web application build in other frameworks. Node js can easly handle multiple clint request with out requiring multiple threads,consuming less memory and resourses.Additionaly, it is highly scalable and provide high profomance. Node js is also flexiable with multiple frameworks and make the devlopment process easier. Compare to other server side languages, Node has distinct advantages. Its asynchronous models and non-blocking I/O operation improve the scalablity and performance of web application build in other frameworks. Node js can easly handle multiple clint request with out requiring multiple threads,consuming less memory and resourses.Additionaly, it is highly scalable and provide high profomance. Node js is also flexiable with multiple frameworks and make the devlopment process easier. Compare to other server side languages, Node has distinct advantages. Its asynchronous models and non-blocking I/O operation improve the scalablity and performance of web application build in other frameworks. Node js can easly handle multiple clint request with out requiring multiple threads,consuming less memory and resourses.Additionaly, it is highly scalable and provide high profomance. Node js is also flexiable with multiple frameworks and make the devlopment process easier. Compare to other server side languages, Node has distinct advantages. Its asynchronous models and non-blocking I/O operation improve the scalablity and performance of web application build in other frameworks. Node js can easly handle multiple clint request with out requiring multiple threads,consuming less memory and resourses.Additionaly, it is highly scalable and provide high profomance. Node js is also flexiable with multiple frameworks and make the devlopment process easier. 